3rd Constitutional Amendment
Third Amendment
Because the current constitutional provisions concerning titles of the RBYA Committee members are
outdated and do not reflect the reality of the current activity of the Committee and out of the desire to
make the Committee more efficient, the 2014-2015 RBYA Committee is proposing the following
Constitutional Amendment.
CURRENT CONSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS
Article II, Par. 1 of the current RBYA Constitution reads:
Organization and Leadership
1. The Association is led by the Executive Committee composed of the following departments:
o One President
o Two Vice Presidents (East and West Coast)
o Missions Department (East and West Coast)
o Training Department (East and West Coast)
o Communications Department (East and West Coast)
o Publishing Department
o YTF “Young Teens Fellowship” Department (East and West Coast)
o Activities Department (East and West Coast)
o Treasury Department (East and West Coast)
o Fundraising Department (East and West Coast)
o Archives/Records Department (East and West Coast)
o Two Controllers (East and West Coast)
Each department is represented by one or two representatives depending on the geographic
region represented.
ISSUES
Under the current Constitutional provisions, the RBYA Committee members are nominated and
subsequently elected in one of the positions provided by the Constitution and described above. This
practice presents a few issues:
1. Disunity and lack of ministry coherence within the Committee – people focus only on their
elected positions, and the respective activities connected with that positions, people do not
want (or have the time) to get involved with other activities, and this leads to a very fragmented
and disunited group of people, which is very inefficient.
2. Disappointment – people who are nominated and elected on certain positions (such as
“Communications”) may soon after they are elected find that they are not called to
Communications and therefore not very good at it. Not having the opportunity to work on other
projects or on other positions within the Committee, these people soon quit the ministry in
disappointment and discouragement.
3. Lack of accountability – When there is only one person assigned to one position (department)
there is no accountable to what they do which may lead to bigger issues.
4. Forgotten departments – If all the positions within the Committee are not filled by elected
youth (which is usually the case), some of these departments are left without a person to run
them and they become “forgotten”. Nobody takes the responsibility to fulfill that department’s
role because it does not fall under their responsibility and important things don’t get done. For
example, for the last couple of years we did not have an elected archive director and no one has
taken the initiative to fill in for this rather important position.
5. Pride – Being elected a certain position that is more visible and more active than others may
lead to issues of pride for the person who is elected to that position.
PROPOSAL
In view of all of the above, we propose to change the way responsibility is assigned within the
Committee. Our proposal is to cease the practice of electing people on a certain position heading the
many departments described above and in Article II, Par. 1 of the current Constitution. The proposed
RBYA Committee will be formed of the President, two Vice-presidents (one for each coast), one
Treasurer, one Controller and 14 Members at Large. The President’s role would be to cast the vision of
that year for the entire organization and to oversee the implementation of that vision. The two Vice
presidents would each be in charge with one of the two main activities of RBYA: mission and events
(camps, retreats, youth gatherings, etc.). During the initial Committee retreat which is usually held in the
first month after the elections, the whole Committee gets together in prayer and based on personal
conversations and evaluations, determines the strengths, interest and calling of each one of the newly
elected members and the President and Vice-president assigns each member to the different upcoming
projects. All the members of the Committee will work together on all the projects, giving input,
participating actively and maintain the unity and the coherence of the vision and mission of RBYA.
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TEXT
This text to replace Article II, Paragraph 1, of the Current RBYA Constitution.
The Association is led by the Executive Committee composed of the following:
1. President
2. Vice President West
3. Vice President East
4. Treasurer
5. Controller
6. General Committee Member (12 positions)
Procedure:
A. People will be nominated according to the existing nomination procedure, but only on the
above mentioned positions. The nominators will be able to express their opinion about which
department the nominee should serve in.
B. At elections the delegates will elect a total of 17 Committee Members (12 General + 5
designated). If there are more than 17 nominees, the candidates with most votes will win.
C. We will strive to encourage even distribution. If there are more than 17 nominees with identical
scores, the election committee will choose the winners in such a way as to achieve balanced
distribution of committee members between the two coasts (East and West).
D. All the members of the Committee will work together on all the projects, giving input,
participating actively and maintain the unity and the coherence of the vision and mission of
RBYA.
Suggestions:
A. The President’s role will be to cast the vision of that year for the entire organization and to
oversee the implementation of that vision.
B. The two Vice Presidents will each be in charge with one of the two main activities of RBYA:
mission and events (camps, retreats, youth gatherings, etc.).
C. During the initial Committee retreat which is usually held in the first month after the elections,
the whole Committee gets together in prayer and based on personal conversations and
evaluations, determines the strengths, interests and calling of each one of the newly elected
members and the President and Vice-president assigns each member to the different upcoming
projects. Committee members can also volunteer to participate in various projects of the
Committee.
